# Introduction---Me & the my prosepctives of this world
 medicine... doctor... patients... these are the words that I have never thought about when I was in high school. Back in 2014, I left my family for the first time and came to U.S. Despite I lived on campus with my classmates since I was in elementary school and acquired independent skills druing that time, going on a journey that I had no clear intention and my future prospects made me feel lost in the vast ocean. Boom, after 13 hours of flight I arrived in a territory that I didn't recognize a single face. It sounds terrifying looking back from now. It is not terrifying that I left my family or living in a place that I have never been to previously.  It is terrifying that I was a completely immature brat who was full of idiotic and unrealistic perspectives of this world. To be honest, before I departed from China, I actually looked forward to become independent, and that's maybe due to my part of my nature that favors challenges. Even after I arrived to U.S, I was like "okay, Imma live on my own and discipline myself to prove that I am a potentially a competent person". I wanted to show my capability of my independence to my parents and even myself by handling every obstacles that I might face in a very young age. Now You might think that I was being very brave and I actually was a bit more mature than other 14 years old children, but actually no. These thoughts came from my ideal perspectives of the world without any practical experience that I should have had before being so excited about becoming independent. Seriously, I am so suprised that I did not get killed or get in to some fetal accident in the first two years of my arrival. I remembered my first landlord warned me that I shouldn't have biked at night since the area that I lived wasn't that safe, but I just went like "pushhhhhhh"  and biked thoughtlessly at 11pm, without any concerns of my safety. Even during the day time, I would let my hands go free and bike on the street while the cars passed right next to me in 40 miles/hour. If I made a single mistake that made me fall I would have died instantly. Nevertheless, while putting my safety at risk is a cost that I had to made for being independent, the rewards are tremendous. The experience of me handling my life style and make decisions on what is right or wrong helped to shape my perspective of this world. Without living with my family, no one hardly ever told me you should do this and stop doing that or this is inappropreiate. That was my life man, I was in charge of my future. Living on my own forced to put me in a situation where it allows me to realize the meaning of life and how to control my life outcome in a short amound of time. Beginning from my third year in high school, I started introspect myself. I asked myself what is right what is wrong, how to improve myself to do things right. I gradually became a thoughtful thinker. I tried to rationalize the logics of why people do this and how they turned out to be like this. By meeting with various kinds of classmates, I became more knowledgeable of why different people behave the way they do. I learned from them both postive and negative aspects of their characteristcs. Soon, I was able to tell how behavior indicates their human natures and inner desires and this is the indicator of my rapid emotional Q development, but only in the aspect of percieving emotions and logically deducing implications of certain behaviors.  So why living independently is related to my EQ development? The answer is simple---I was trying to figure out what is appropreiate and inapproprieate by observing other people. The very advantage I had is that I was a active learner instead of passive. Being corrected by our parents and being told of what to do is passive learning, and this learning process is 10X less effiencient than active learning. Although it's rare, but You can live in family with high social status for 30 years and being educated everyday and still be a dumbass if you don't appreciate the lessons you are taught and internalize the knowledge about this world. In addition, we shouldn't learn about this world from our parents or caregivers. Many of us might wonder why since they are the one who raised us and taught us what to do. Suprisingly, due to the reason that we know our parents so well, we tend to create an inaccurate image about them. Our emotions and attachments that we had in early age make them very special to us, and being able to spot their postive and negative sides are very difficult. For example, despite right now I can affectively read people's emotions and analyze their behaviors, I still have a very hard time when I try to do the same thing to my parents. Their inner states are like two shadows and I feel like I will never clearly see which part of them project that shadows. I do admit that there are a lot of things we can learn from parents, specially if they are educated and socially experienced, but for some people including myself it is not an efficient way to learn about this world. Another contributor to my active learning process is that I got rid of the shields that impeded me from active learning. When you live with your parents, you sort of have this sheild that always protect you from any difficulties we might encounter. This can make us become less presistent on the issue that we can handle by oursleves. Most importantly, this sheild reduces our motivation to pursue mroe. Why? Simple! when a person has a defense system such as a house, they feel likes concern about their chance of survival compare with a person with no defense at all. This person will do the best he/ she can to increase his/her chance of survival, and that's how we learn more effectively. By living in U.S, I had to learn in order to survive and for my deam to live a life that I longed for. Similar motivation can be triggered by poverty as well. Children who live in poverty tend to study harder because they want to acheieve similar goal. Family is so warm that it gives us a distort feeling that even I eventually fail in life it won't be such a big deal. This is not true, it is a huge deal and our family will be so fucking disappointed in us, but we tend to have that safe and illutional feeling when living with them. To put it in a simple way, active learning is effective and efficient because it enables us to volunteraily engage in learning new things, internalize the knowledge, be appreaciative of what we have acquired through the learning experience, and apply these knowledge to our world. So yes, In the past couple years I experienced drastic change of perspecitves of this world. Another thing I need to emphasize is that we should use our golden age of learning effectively. 18 years old or younger is the best time to learn, and I felt actually a bit lucky for be able to learn so much during my age. You can let a person who is 21 years old become indepedent but they won't learn so much. This is because the flexiblity that adult lacks. Our brains are structured in a way that tend to adapt the enviornment during early age and become fixed once reach adulthood. This is very strange for me to say but I tend to get along with people who are older than me. I maintain better relationships with people who are socially experienced than people of my same age. One of my colleage at work who is in her 25s commented that I have the reasoning skills that the people at my same age don't have. I am able to understand what older people say when their words come from their experience. Yes, experience shape our thinking process but it's much quicker and efficient when learning in a young age. Overall, I feel living on my own in U.S. makes me a really .....Need to rewrite these whole thing, so fking cocky, I am so fking narcistic. smfh.
